       LDTA 2011 Call for Papers and Tool Challenge Submissions

                    11th International Workshop on
            Language Descriptions, Tools, and Applications

                             www.ldta.info

                         Saarbrucken, Germany
                          March 26 & 27, 2011
                           an ETAPS workshop

LDTA is an application and tool-oriented workshop focused on
grammarware - software based on grammars in some form.  Grammarware
applications are typically language processing applications and
traditional examples include parsers, program analyzers, optimizers
and translators.  A primary focus of LDTA is grammarware that is
generated from high-level grammar-centric specifications and thus
submissions on parser generation, attribute grammar systems,
term/graph rewriting systems, and other grammar-related
meta-programming tools, techniques, and formalisms are encouraged.

LDTA is also a forum in which theory is put to the test, in many cases
on real-world software engineering challenges.  Thus, LDTA also
solicits papers on the application of grammarware to areas including,
but not limited to, the following:
- program analysis, transformation, generation, and verification,
- implementation of Domain-Specific Languages,
- reverse engineering and re-engineering,
- refactoring and other source-to-source transformations,
- language definition and language prototyping, and
- debugging, profiling, IDE support, and testing.

This year LDTA will also be putting theory, as well as techniques and
tools, to the test in a new way - in the LDTA Tool Challenge.  Tool
developers are invited to participate in the Challenge by developing
solutions to a range of language processing tasks over a simple but
evolving set of imperative programming languages.  Tool challenge
participants will present highlights of their solution during a
special session of the workshop and contribute to a joint paper on the
Tool Challenge and proposed solutions to be co-authored by all
participants after the workshop.

Note that LDTA is a well-established workshop similar to other
conferences on (programming) language engineering topics such as SLE
and GPCE, but is solely focused on grammarware.

Paper Submission
----------------
LDTA solicits papers in the following categories.

- research papers: original research results within the scope of LDTA
  with a clear motivation, description, analysis, and evaluation.

- short research papers: new innovative ideas that have not been
  completely fleshed out.  As a workshop, LDTA strongly encourages
  these types of submissions.

- experience report papers: description of the use of a grammarware
  tool or technique to solve a non-trivial applied problem with an
  emphasis on the advantages and disadvantages of the chosen approach
  to the problem.

- tool demo papers: discussion of a tool or technique that explains
  the contributions of the tool and what specifically will be
  demonstrated.  These papers should describe tools and applications
  that do not fit neatly into the specific problems in the Tool
  Challenge.

Each submission must clearly state in which of these categories it
falls and not be published or submitted elsewhere.  Papers are to use
the standard LaTeX article style and the authblk style for
affiliations; a sample of which is provided at www.ldta.info.
Research and experience papers are limited to 15 pages, tool
demonstration papers are limited to 10 pages, and short papers are
limited to 6 pages.  The final version of the accepted papers will,
pending approval, be published in the ACM Digital Library and will
also be made available during the workshop.

Please submit your abstract and paper using EasyChair at
http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ldta2011.

The authors of each submission are required to give a presentation at
LDTA 2011 and tool demonstration paper presentations are intended to
include a significant live, interactive demonstration.

The authors of the best papers will be invited to write a journal
version of their paper which will be separately reviewed and, assuming
acceptance, be published in journal form.  As in past years this will
be done in a special issue of the journal Science of Computer
Programming (Elsevier Science).

Invited Speaker
---------------
Rinus Plasmeijer, Radboud University Nijmegen, The Netherlands

Important Dates
---------------
Abstract submission: Dec. 15, 2010
Full paper submission: Dec. 22, 2010
Author notification: Feb. 04, 2011
Camera-ready papers due: TBD
LDTA Workshop: March 26-27, 2011

LDTA Tool Challenge
-------------------

The aim of the LDTA Tool Challenge is to foster a better
understanding, among tool developers and tool users, of relative
strengths and weaknesses of different language processing tool
techniques as well as different implementations and realizations of
those techniques.  Tool developers are invited to participate in the
Tool Challenge and demonstrate their solution to the problems during a
special session of LDTA 2011.

The problems in the LDTA Tool Challenge Problem Set can be viewed as
points in a two dimensional space: one dimension specifying language
processing tasks and the second dimension specifying the set of
languages to which these tasks are to be applied.  Along the task
dimension are several traditional language processing tasks such as
parsing, pretty printing, semantic analysis, optimization, and code
generation. The language dimension is comprised of a simple, but
evolving, suite of imperative programming languages. These two
dimensions form a “problem space” in which various techniques and
implementations will find problems in which they excel and others in
which they find some challenges; no single technique or tool is
expected to be optimal for all problems.  Thus, this is a “challenge”
and not a competition; no winner is declared.  The full description of
the problem set can be found in the LDTA Tool Challenge Problem Set
document on the LDTA web page at ( http://www.ldta.info ).

The Tool Challenge is open to developers of all kinds of grammarware
tools and techniques.  To participate, tool developers must submit the
following by March 5, 2011.  Names of participants and the name of
their tool or technique.  Presentation title and abstract.  The short
abstract should specify on what aspects of the problem set the tool
was applied, where it excelled and where no solution was offered
and/or the solution was considered less than optimal.  We expect these
to be only a few paragraphs in length.

This information is used for scheduling purposes only and is not used
for evaluation; as all tool developers interested in participating are
welcome and will be given an opportunity to present their solution at
the workshop.  Submission of this information indicates a commitment
to attend LDTA and to participate in the workshop.  This information
will be listed in the program.

Authors of submissions that appear to be outside of the scope of LDTA
will be contacted to discuss the relevance of their work to the
workshop.  Of course tool developers who question whether their work
falls with the scope of LDTA are encouraged to contact the PC chairs
early on for clarification.

After the workshop a joint paper will be written by participants and
submitted to a journal, most likely Science of Computer Programming.
It is separate from the proceedings of the workshop and any special
journal issue for the workshop.

Program Committee
-----------------
Emilie Balland, INRIA, France
Anya Helene Bagge, University of Bergen, Norway,
Paulo Borba, Federal University of Pernambuco, Brazil
John Boyland, University of Wisconsin, USA
Claus Brabrand, IT University of Copenhagen, Denmark (co-chair), brabrand@itu.dk
Kyung-Goo Doh, Hanyang University, Ansan, South Korea
Giorgios Robert Economopoulos, University of Southampton, UK
Nigel Horspool, University of Victoria, Canada
Roberto Ierusalimschy, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Johan Jeuring, Utrecht University, The Netherlands
Shane Markstrum, Bucknell University, USA
João Saraiva, Universidade do Minho, Portugal
Sibylle Schupp, Hamburg University of Technology, Germany
Eli Tilevich, Virginia Tech, USA
Eric Van Wyk, University of Minnesota, USA (co-chair), evw@cs.umn.edu
Eelco Visser, Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands
... more to be added ...

Organizing Committee
--------------------
Emilie Balland, INRIA, France
Giorgios Robert Economopoulos, University of Southampton, UK
